---
title: February 2020
date: 2020-02-01
categories:
- music report
---
## Album releases

**Sunda Arc — Tides** &nbsp; 🔥_Highly recommended!_
Would you say this is a techno record? Certainly _Daemon_ takes my top spot for hardest banger of the year so far. But this album also includes the _Boards of Canada_-esque _Hymn_, the more cinematic _Everything at Once_, a textural exploration á la Tim Hecker _(Thessaloniki)_, and even some full-on minimal/chamber pieces (_Another Life,_ _Secret Window_). Overall this is one of my favorite records in recent memory and I'll be paying very close attention to the Smart brothers from here on out.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/0ClaGJPlguxHVrC4b264Yy?si=1lknt12uTV2jOd9_s0XV7Q)

**Moses Boyd — Dark Matter** &nbsp; 🔥_Highly recommended!_
The London jazz scene is a hotbed of unique and interesting music right now and Moses Boyd is at the forefront. His _Displaced Diaspora_ in 2018 got me paying attention and _Dark Matter_ is a worthy followup. Singles like _BTB_ and _Y.O.Y.O._ bring a danceable urgency into traditional jazz structures, while tunes like _Stranger Than Fiction_ and _2 Far Gone_ (with Joe Armon Jones) move further into a realm of urban fusion music. You'll never stray too far from home, though; even when a genuine 2-step beat is banging through the speakers the melodies are still thoughtful, jazzy improvisations.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/4XRA7yDYWSkO5BMvZinESW?si=44da4GylSjWe8xUFXZDxfw)

**Intronaut — Fluid Existential Inversions**
An exciting metal album that veers between punishing, heads-down density and soaring, catchy hooks. The cymbal work almost sounds jazzy at times, but don't go in expecting jazz. I picked _Speaking of Orbs_ to add to my Work Metal playlist.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/2GKcaGXK7yLvmR9m5aEN5i?si=I4lBHiIHSCO1qS4cjpq_ow)

**Sierra Hull — 25 Trips**
Sierra Hull is one of the world's best mandolin players but her music isn't confined to the bluegrass or folk idiom. _25 Trips_ is full of good songs that avoid definition, while showing off great musicianship, catchy arrangements and lovely vocals.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/5MW8vgKSki8FkuzIeEbDjG?si=Qxvf9RvvSPybPeU00drUiw)

**Six Organs of Admittance — Companion Rises**
_Companion Rises_ still has Six Organs' trademark moody, technical guitar folk sound, but adds an uptempo dimension of fuzzy riffs and feedback. Tunes like _The 101_ feel to me like they're almost getting into a post-punk territory.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/7LYUo2bfaJ3T5HvOQVaADr?si=qcBJ2ToTTQCjK3JCPRpUKQ)

**Elaquent — Forever is a Pretty Long Time**
This is just a solid hip-hop release. Elaquent's production is catchy and the beats feel very specific and comfortable for the MCs who collaborate on it. _Guidelines_ with Oddisee and _Chase the Light_ with Cavalier are the standout tracks for me.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/0ybVn9avRMI5Foj5VcLKc3?si=DlYlZrF4SxOhldfJPOsTcQ)

**Filthy Gears — Pure Filth, Vol. 1**
Nothing too complicated here, just an album full of scorching instrumentals from one of my favorite grime producers. Play it when you want a little edge; it makes a great workout album.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/4tsT6RsoDEW6IUO8orjcN9?si=R935PfrESf62UHo29jcKqQ)

**HashFinger, Butta & MC Synergy — Hash Butta Synergy**
Australian MCs Butta and Synergy link up with HashFinger on this collaboration. They both have super smooth and unique flows and the lyricism leans intellectual, sighting in squarely on modern culture and current events. If you could only spin one track here, make sure it's _Gospel Comfort_.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/0YOEYoxTw7X6R3PZFLWJbi?si=767-OUyuTD-fKAUUvpVI1g)

**Kelpe — Run With the Floating, Weightless Slowness**
A calm and thoughtful record. I don't think "minimal" is the right word, because there's quite a bit going on sonically here, but there's certainly a lot of space between all the carefully crafted sounds.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/6sOuGcJxXyC2Q752SmDzEM?si=59v8DFqBQcKny-eut7xIxQ)


## Singles/EPs

**Fazer / Popp — Gahu Dub / Baixo** &nbsp; 🔥_Highly recommended!_
I like Fazer's _Gahu Dub_ just fine and it's surely worth a listen, but _Baixo_ is the standout on this split EP. Popp makes music that is so dense and engaging that you barely realize it's all percussion instruments! If you like this, be sure to check out _Laya_ (2019) next.
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/5timajaHjvCveQbyY2zIYz?si=1bjuZRLoT12U9prWktWrdw)


## New to Me

**Polynation — Igneous (2019)**
Freewheeling electronic/acoustic tunes that swoop and soar. I think it's kind of like... maybe if Bonobo and Skalpel had a love child?
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/5kU3Q43bmLdARkMOCOLNkB?si=dLJTyGMGR1qW3jI3zluaXg)
