---
title: September 2020
date: 2020-09-01
tags:
- music report
---


## Album releases

{% review "All Them Witches — Nothing as the Ideal", "hot",
  "spotify:https://open.spotify.com/album/2pP6WdEW09g6PgFVfKjefd"
%}
  This is a fascinating album. It sounds like it was recorded in a hazy cloud of smoke on a sweaty Tennessee summer night; I think it's technically metal, and it definitely brings sludge and riffs, but it balances those out with equal parts poetry and soul.

  In fact, I think the band has their best moments when they fully lean into their Appalachian roots. _The Children of Coyote Woman_ starts out with Charles Parks reciting a plaintive couplet:

  _Romulus and Remus Hill / Lived at the top of Ouachita Bend\
  Momma died, they laid her down / And quickly took to squabblin'_

  and only gets more mournful from there. This ballad wouldn't feel out of place on a country record, but here it works as a beautiful transition between the unswerving riffs of _See You Next Fall_ and the funky, winding post-rock meltdown of _41._

  Overall, this record feels like an experiment gone right — another success for a band that's hard to pin down. I'd recommend this even to listeners who don't often go for heavy music.
{% endreview %}

{% review "The Ocean — Phanerozoic II: Mesozoic | Cenozoic",
  "spotify:https://open.spotify.com/album/26TeqFz1sPbJT6VjAbBtzl"
%}
  Ahh, prog metal: The genre where you get a paleontology-themed, multi-album cycle that includes both sung and instrumental versions of the tracks. I really enjoyed both versions of _Phanerozoic I: Palaeozoic_ and this follow-up is no different. _Jurassic | Cretaceous_ is one of my favorite metal songs all year, 13 minutes of smoking, meteoric thrash that also invokes a dystopian image of climate change.

  The vocal versions are grindy and epic, but I'll probably reach for the instrumental side more often. There, the sound works as heavy post-rock, where distorted piano and synth melodies can co-exist with thrashing double bass and murky tar pit riffs.
{% endreview %}


## Singles/EPs

{% review "P Money — While We Wait",
  "spotify:https://open.spotify.com/album/79ntemGY74OKbt4RF4Uos0"
%}
  I haven't been too dialed in to the grime scene this year, but P Money is an upper echelon lyricist for me and this EP is solid as I'd expect. I'm especially here for the scorching verses with Mez on _Bumbaclart Riddem_ and the raw honesty on _Is Someone There?_.
{% endreview %}



## New to Me

{% review "John Roberts — Glass Eights (2010)",
  "spotify:https://open.spotify.com/album/3qjMRuS9EkF3eow4c0jGSX"
%}
  _Glass Eights_ is a collection of deep and sultry house music, perfect for a late-night walk or an afterhours cooldown. My favorite track is _Ever or Not,_ for its shuffling percussion, enveloping bass and mysterious clicks and chimes.
{% endreview %}

{% review "DRB-ADB — DRB-ADB-001 (2017)",
  "spotify:https://open.spotify.com/album/0wcoB5ir4dtFsLQAI8PAKr"
%}
  A short EP of bare-metal drum funk. Melody comes mostly from warm and prominently positioned basslines that remind me a bit of [Khruangbin](https://open.spotify.com/artist/2mVVjNmdjXZZDvhgQWiakk), but this record is really all about the kit.
{% endreview %}

{% review "Lhasa de Sela — La Llorona (1997)",
  "spotify:https://open.spotify.com/album/7J8k8Y7zfCFKMPWzUPGVuP"
%}
  What a small world. I queued this record blindly from some list or other and immediately recognized _De cara a la pared_ as one of  the early tracks from one of my favorite DJ sets of all time ([Trentemøller's 2006 Essential Mix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJNI61MBqmE)). I'd never identified it back in the day but hearing it on this album was instantly transporting.

  I'm glad to have found the record anyway; it's a blend of subtle electronic production, slinky torch songs and Mexican traditional music. The sound ranges from "very folky" to "hear this in the lounge at 2:00 AM" and it's solid at all points on that spectrum.
{% endreview %}

{% review "Preston Reed — Ladies Night (2004)",
  "spotify:https://open.spotify.com/album/0qziLfl6OCJMAdfoUb5SrQ"
%}
  An awesome solo acoustic guitar record with slight overtones of country or bluegrass, catchy structure and a percussive propulsiveness in the vein of [Rodrigo y Gabriela](https://open.spotify.com/artist/7vX3cMVyW8gtDA4y855ynF). Reed's technique and composition style are unique and reflect a self-taught player with wide influences. I'm glad I discovered this.
{% endreview %}
